Now, just as much as
anything in management,
it's hard to know what it looks like.
So we're gonna do a little
bit of a scenario.
All right, Jim, thank you for
joining me and yeah,
you're my direct report today,
you're gonna be giving me feedback.
The scenario is, well,
you're the engineer on my team.
You're frustrated with a decision
that I've made as a manager to
leverage a new technology.
You have constructive feedback for me.
Let's dive in.
>> Think of this one.
>> Maybe it's short sighted.
I'm just saying that we should use,
let's talk front end.
We should go use jquery,
this react isn't working.
>> I've got a real one.
Ryan, we spent all this
time talking about KPIs and
how to measure team performance for
the betterment of the team.
And we all agreed,
we started doing that for a quarter.
And all of a sudden, we're using OKRs and
we're using this brand new tool.
It just feels like it came out of nowhere,
what are we doing as a team?
I don't feel like you're paying attention
to how much churn this causes us.
Also, I don't like your black shirt.
>> All right, well,
thank you for choice on colors.
I am a fan of black, but I understand
that you might not like that color.
All right, but
to the OKR piece, what are you
finding that's causing the turn
>> I don't know how to use it,
and it's slowing me down and I've heard
similar from other people in the team.
>> You know what, that's something I've
been thinking about too is that I've
noticed in some of our team meetings
that even as we're writing OKRs,
that it feels like there's a lack
of clarity on how to write OKRs.
And I've been wondering if I've
sprung this on the team too early and
without actually educating
on how do we write OKRs?
Do you think that would have been more
helpful in this point if we spent a little
bit more time as a team
working through that?
If I was to say, let's maybe bring someone
on who knows how to write OKRs well and
give us a presentation on that or
help us get better at that,
would that be something that would
make it less feel less churn?
>> That'd be helpful, but I think overall,
there's just been a lot
of changes going on.
And this just piles on on top of,
we're just trying to find direction for
the team.
So I think having some training
would help, but overall,
I think there's a theme going on of just,
we can't find any stability.
>> What kind of changes do are you kind of
speaking to that maybe not making you feel
stable?
What's something I could do to
make it feel a little more stable?
>> I had a parking space in
front of the building, and
now they've done construction,
it's in the back of the building.
So it's not really helping me, and
the lunch menu just didn't
relate where I wanna be.
But in seriousness, yeah, just in general,
the market's really uncertain.
I have friends looking for jobs,
it's a tricky time to navigate.
And what I'm looking for
is just stability and inside our team.
Yeah, what are ways we can
you can provide that for us?
>> Yeah, I mean stability is good, right?
And so I think anything that we can do
to feel better as a team, absolutely.
How are OKRs?
That was kind of the problem
that you're really seen surface,
how do you feel like that's not stability?
Is it because it's yet another change
that we're doing as a team and
it might not feel like the right time?
>> Yeah, I feel like we're very
reactive to decisions made above us.
And I know you feel that way too, you
mentioned in some of the team meetings.
So it's just another change
in how we do things and yet
another tool we have to learn.
I just wanna get back to coding.
>> Yeah, and this seems to be eating a lot
of your time up is going through OKRs,
is that correct?
>> Yeah.
>> Okay, I definitely hear it.
Do you think it was clear on
why we were trying to achieve,
why we've started using OKRs?
Was it clear to you on why
the goal was to leverage OKRs?
>> Not really, I could use a bit more
context around how we arrived here.
>> Yeah, I think that was something
that I didn't do a good job of,
is really making it clear that I felt like
our team wasn't really clear on the type
of work that we were doing.
We weren't really prioritizing
effectively, and it wasn't clear,
what the impact was.
And so me introducing OKRs was
a way to try and address that.
But reflecting on it is, it could have
been better for me to one state that goal,
and maybe not even state a solution,
maybe asking you all of like,
how do you think we could do better?
Maybe it was we swung too far
into process where it was, yeah,
we don't need to go all the way to OKRs.
Maybe there's something
that I was missing and
probably could have gathered more
input and feedback from you all.
>> Thanks for listening,
Ryan, I do feel better.
I know not everything's your fault, but
I appreciate you listening to my concerns.
>> Well, thank you for the feedback, Jim.
This is super helpful,
I do want to try and
address some of these things to make it
easier for you and the rest of the team.
First off, I think just even educating
you all better on what's the approach for
writing better OKRs but
even what's the point of us doing it.
I don't think that's been
clear what you're telling me.
And I think that's a huge miss on my part,
so I need to circle back with a team and
make sure that that's clear.
And also ask for input and feedback
on how we can improve the process.
We do need to improve our planning,
I do think that's important, but
maybe there's something else that
I'm missing that could help us.
Thank you for the feedback Jim.
I'm gonna open up to the audiences.
This was on the fly, so
I don't even know how I did on it, but
I'm curious to know what do you
think worked in that scenario.
What could have been better?
Yeah, you heard Gemini run through that
scenario that was really on the fly.
And so, I would love to hear
you all witnessing that,
what were some of the takeaways,
things that you felt worked,
things that you were maybe
unsure of questions.
Feedback on how I could
have received that better,
how Jim could have delivered
the feedback better.
Love to hear some thoughts.
>> So I think you did a good job
Ryan of receiving that feedback.
But I was wondering for Jim was your
wording of not everything is your
fault intentional, or
was that more just how it came out?
>> There's intentional.
Especially in the environment we're
in right now where there's a lot
of changes happening and
a lot of technology companies.
I know myself I've been
through a lot of re-orgs, so
a lot of things that I have to
represent as the face of the business.
I have no control over
I just represent them.
And that's that kind of scenario
is based on like scenarios
I've actually experienced
where the team understands.
We're shifting directions we have
to change our how we report things.
And they know it's not on me, but
being the face of the business,
you deal with a lot of frustrations
that aren't necessarily your fault.
So, the team does acknowledge that,
they're like, hey, I know it's on you and
I'm venting, but what can you do to try
to make this a little bit easier for us.
>> Couple comments.
Firstly, Twitch chat
likes your black shirt.
So-
>> [LAUGH]
>> Good,
>> [CROSSTALK]
>> One plus there.
So, [LAUGH] someone commented,
just general comment, the way you
controlled the talk by navigating away
from the other personal themes that
were bothering the engineer and
kept focus on the initial issue was great.
And then kinda more generally,
just when it comes to personal connections
that you might have with an engineer or
team member, how do you manage
the boundaries in a relationship while
giving or handling feedback.
>> Yeah, that's a good question.
Honestly,
I could see some people maybe struggling
if you have personal connections or
quote unquote friends.
I think it's good to kind
of separate those things a little bit.
But in some ways, having strong
relationships with your team,
you bond together as a team.
I think there's a lot of
benefits that come with that.
You trust your friends, right,
or you should, hopefully.
So I think you can build those
friendships, but you also have to
recognize that you still might have
to have those tough conversations.
I think that's okay, but
it's harder to navigate.
I still think that it's possible,
some people will be like,
don't hire friends and all that.
Yeah, that can absolutely happen where
it doesn't work out, but maybe you can
also talk about those things upfront if
you are to hire, truly hire a friend.
I think oftentimes too, you become
friends with people you work with too.
So it's not an easy thing to navigate,
but I think there's also benefits,
there's trade-offs that
come along with it.
>> Yeah.
>> I think Jim started kind of broad,
which I think is fine when
you're trying to give feedback.
Maybe you don't really know
what you're getting at, but
I thought you did a really good job
of asking follow up questions and
trying to nail down of what the actual
issue is to then go ahead and solve that.
And you also spoke aloud and
verbalize like ways you could do better.
So it's more than like,
I think you're verbalizing that yes,
we can help you fix this issue, but I'll
also put in work to then make sure it's
not an issue going forward for
other scenarios.
>> Right, it was definitely a lot
of seeking to understand like,
t what is it about it but then also, yeah,
trying to state back to here are some
things I think I could do to help.
And then also looking for maybe gems
like nah, that's not gonna help her.
Yeah, maybe that would help,
let's try that.
So yeah, good call out.
Yeah.
>> I found that in asking those
clarifying follow up questions,
I oftentimes am jumping
ahead a little bit.
And perhaps being more direct or
jumping to conclusions
the other person isn't,
and sometimes that comes off as arguing or
defensive without intending to be.
I've noticed one thing a leader in my org
does really well is prompting by asking,
I wanna ask some clarifying questions
could you help me better understand and
kind of setting the table there to?
It's subtle and it's short,
>> Yeah.
>> But as I've read things I've
understand stood that's really important
stuff that she does to make sure that,
we're clear that when I'm asking
you questions here my goal is
not to justify my behavior, but
to understand better what specifically is
the issue and how we might address it.
>> I love that you called that out cuz
actually even in the moment there,
I was a little worried that my follow-up
questions might have come across a little
bit defensive or maybe like trying to
skate around it, or not take blame.
But some of it was, and
I love that kind of stadium.
Like here, I wanna better understand,
I thank you for the feedback.
Even that I could have probably
started thanks for the feedback,
I wanna better understand that and so
I do have some follow-up questions, so
it's not like I'm
attacking with questions.
I was trying to seek to understand, but
I think that would have even
better delivery in that sense too.
>> One other thing I liked that
you did was, you stood firm and
clear on what the goal was,
even if the execution isn't always good.
We had a conversation about this we
recently changed our stand up format to be
less like calling individuals and
more oriented towards sprinkles.
And, [COUGH] certainly our execution
on that has not been great.
Our stand ups have actually gotten longer.
And we've had a lot of conversation back
and forth and retrospectives about that.
But I found that reiterating
what the goal is,
is to keep everyone
bought in on shipping and
on clarifying what our priorities are as
a team to help orient folks towards,
I know this person is working on
that thing, how can I help them?
How can I identify when they need a review
or they need QA prioritize that.?
Helps everyone understand that like, okay,
that gives good context for what we're
trying to do, we're not just arbitrarily
changing process for the sake of it.
And how we might be able to orient
things better towards that.
Where maybe it just needs to be two
minutes at the beginning of standup to
align on like, here's the top priority,
and here's the three tickets for
that we don't need to go through
every ticket for every goal.
And one other thing we eliminated
was just there were too many goals.
>> Right, and
that obviously can be a painful thing too.
And actually, even in that scenario,
I was taking ownership of maybe I
didn't state the goal,
I just enforce some process.
And it wasn't clear to the team
on what that goal was, but
yeah, aligning on a goal that's huge.
I think in terms of real
feedback on that feedback.
>> [LAUGH]
>> So we don't rehearse this, so
it's totally,
he's just reacting to what I'm saying.
I think there was an opportunity to
dive deeper there, where I was like,
I'm generally frustrated with the company
and you represent the company
rather than going to like, hey, I'll fix
the problem with like OKRs and tooling.
It's like, tell me more about that.
>> Yes.
>> What else?
What can I do to provide more stability?
And that's, sometimes people are upset
with you and something you did, or
should I say me?
But sometimes it actually is something
else and because you are the business, and
there's no one else to yell at sometimes.
That's their frustration,
it's coming through on other parts.
And I'm not saying it's always not your
fault, but that's something it's tricky to
navigate, to try to dive deep and
see what's really the problem.
And if it is like something minor or
not minor, but something you did,
then that's something you can address.
Sometimes it's not, actually, a lot of
times it's not, it's something else.
>> Yeah, and I think in those months
I've completely agree with what you had
said there.
And that's actually a good feedback.
And I was actually purposeful of like,
that's gonna go really deep.
And so I avoided that, but it's also
helpful too is oftentimes as leaders,
sometimes this isn't our decision.
You don't want to say,
I don't like the decision either,
that's not a good reaction.
But we can empathize too, right?
It's like trying to state the goal or
understand the goal of why we're trying
to achieve it is, yeah, I'm a little
worried that it might not work,
but how do we kind of get you
on board a little bit to try it?
And we've kinda got to disagree and
commit, but
also it's okay to empathize
with people in that moment.
Especially if it is above you and
you can't do something,
ultimately you don't want
a frustrated person on your team.
So you don't wanna empathize so
much so you're like, yeah,
I'm frustrated too this is awful.
This is gonna bomb, and
it's gonna be terrible, that's not great.
But if you can try and orient around like,
yeah, I'm a little concerned too, but
here's how I'm thinking about it or
I see where they're headed.
It does help show empathy as a leader
without also just kind of piling on.
>> Yeah, but nothing more frustrating than
when you're complaining to your manager,
and just the company line 100%, just
like disregard everything you're saying.
It's like well, yeah,
we got to do this and here's why.
And you're like,
I thought we had a relationship.
And that like I found that erodes stress
really quickly if you're not like,
yeah, I hear you.
I hear you and it's been bumpy for me,
too but here's here's why I'm positive.
I'd like to you said, you spin it at
the end of like, yeah, I hear you but
here's what I think we can do.
>> Yeah., versus Jim,
just get on board, you got to do it.
That's not that helpful.
>> You did well there, Ryan.
I threw you a lot of hard curveballs.
>> Thank you, I appreciate it.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I actually appreciate the hard
curveballs, it gets more realistic here.
Emily.
>> Can I ask a general giving feedback
question?
>> Yes.
>> You're giving feedback to someone.
And maybe they have low confidence.
They take things personally.
It's not that ideal scenario
how they're doing that.
So they start crying in that scenario.
What do you do in that scenario to kind of
address that and give them that space but
also kind of handle it?
>> Yeah, that's a really good question.
Cuz yeah, we're people,
there's emotions right?
Some of it, it's hard.
I think if in the moment, I mean, if
someone joins, say we're on a remote call
and they join and they're upset for
you, you've even said feedback,
don't give them feedback, right,
especially that critical feedback.
But if you're giving feedback and
they're a bit upset, recognize that,
you don't wanna be harsh,
you wanna be empathetic.
But you don't wanna stop
to necessarily say, well,
I just won't give them the feedback
because that's not right either.
You still have to give that
timely feedback, it is very,
very hard to navigate.
I have been in that situation,
and it's tough.
But I think it's still important for
you to talk through it.
It might take more conversations to
is like, hey, it's gonna be too hard
to talk through this right now, I want
you to have some time cuz you're a human.
Empathize with them, what would you like
in that scenario and try and do that.
Or even ask, should we try and
meet another time?
I wanna give you space for that,
but you're still gonna meet, right?
You're still gonna have to give that
feedback and you don't wanna avoid it.
That's easy, right?
All right, cool, they're crying, I'm out.
So I think that's how I would approach it,
it's really situational, but
being prepared that, yeah,
people might get upset.
It's tough to hear that critical feedback.
And when your job might be on the line,
that's tough.
So, yeah, you might run into that and so
I think it's just how would you like to
handle or be dealt with in that situation?